\documentclass[11pt,letterpaper]{article}

\input{preamble}

\title{\Large{Integrative efforts in disaster resilience and planning:\\
    From observations to predictions}} 
\author{\normalsize{Kanna Rajan, Michelle Miro, Ajit
      Subramaniam~\footnote{Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory \&
        Columbia Climate School, \newline Columbia University,
        \url{https://lamont.columbia.edu/directory/ajit-subramaniam}}
    }\\
  \emph{\{Kanna.Rajan,mmiro\}@rand.org, ajit@ldeo.columbia.edu}\\
  \url{https://kanna.rajan.systems}}

\begin{document}

\maketitle{}
% \newpage

\subsection*{Executive Summary}

Extreme weather events are at a rise, with substantial increases not
only in intensity but also frequency of such. NOAA's National Centers
for Environmental Information, lists \$33 Million worth of property
damage from coastal events including Coastal Flood, Flash Flood, Storm
Surge/Tide, and Tropical storms in 227 events in 2022 alone, up from
201 events and \$25.5 Million worth of damage. Science and technology
have made rapid strides to predict such events and at a point where
systems, processes and strategies can be brought to bear to mitigate
human impact. Equally important, such planning tools can be used to
stress-test the preparedness of emergency responders and disaster
management agencies, while also providing strategic advice on asset
allocation and placement. 


\input{intro}

\input{proj}

% \input{outcomes}


\section*{Concluding Remarks}

There is increasing need to have an integrative view of how coastal
and off-shore events tie into not only a predictive capability, but
also a tool-set to enable data/hypothesis driven informed policy which
in turn lead to concrete plans and actions for emergency responders in
shore and on land. The integration of coastal riverine, land use and
ocean dynamics coupled with a logistical course of action (COA) will
allow precisely such 'electronic table-top' driven exercises to
prepare agencies such as FEMA, Coast Guard and the Army Corps of
Engineers to do 'what-if-analyses' to ensure preparedness. To do so,
we need not just models but hard and soft observations from embedded
and in-situ sensors on mobile and static platforms (autonomous or not)
coupled with high resolution models with a predictive capability which
can be run effectively and quickly anytime. 

% \bibliographystyle{IEEEtran}
% {\footnotesize
% \bibliography{references}}

\end{document}